let's do a redo on my 2012 retirement
number of nine minutes video yeah we're
gonna update it for 2014 and 2015
well back in the day I told you that I
had Dennis coming up to me frequently
saying hey I need six thousand dollars
excuse me six million dollars saved for
retirement this is what my planner tells
me the first question I'd ask after that
is is that in today's dollars are
inflated dollars a hundred percent of
the time the person would say I don't
know so let's get down to some real
figures everything today is going to be
in 2014 dollars or real dollars yes they
have to be indexed for inflation but it
doesn't get confusing with compound
inflation over time so this is all going
to be in 2014 dollars well Roger Levin
does a survey of dentists net incomes
and private practice each year and it a
ver ajiz anywhere from two hundred
thousand to maybe two hundred thirty the
last few years let's use 250 as our
average for a private practice dentist
net income so 250 net income of that
normally and I'm using eastern or
western stays here forty percent taxes
state federal we've got to remember our
self-employment tax it's about a hundred
thousand dollars a year also mortgages
for dentists average about thirty
thousand a year yes I know it gets a lot
higher than this but this is the average
for a dentist earning $250,000 how much
does that dentists put away for savings
each year what I'm doing is I'm taking
out things that won't be needed in
retirement marmoleum
mortgage savings yeah we're going to add
back in taxes but not 40% so what is
left over is $95,000 this is the
retirement budget for our dentist
earning $250,000 not including income
tax now we're gonna have to add back in
income tax because you're going to be
paying taxes on your Social Security
most of dentists savings are tax
deferred so you're gonna have to pay
taxes on that but it's not going to be
40% in fact all the evidence I can find
is it's going to be closer to 22 to 25
percent let's use 33 let's use the
higher level again to be more
conservative so $95,000 times one
divided by one minus the tax rate 0.33
that comes up to right around $150,000
per year of retirement income needed
pre-tax
$150,000 a year retirement income needed
that's about 60 percent of the $250,000
now a lot of pioneers will say I need 70
70 or 80% of your pre-retirement income
period we have to use that figure well
no it doesn't make sense for a small
business for a salaried employee of
course it does so 60% makes a lot more
sense here the interesting part is is
that we are keeping a hundred percent of
our budget in retirement all your
spending needs are going to be the same
now the one extra thing I need to say
here if you have a mortgage you can't
subtract the mortgage out that kicks up
the retirement number at $30,000 closer
to $200,000 which is significantly more
savings that you're going to need okay
we need $150,000 income in retirement is
there something that's going to help
with that income that you're going to
receive long term
yeah Social Security may also be a
government pension for a spouse maybe
rentals that you have that are going to
help pay income for you in retirement
well let's just include Social Security
here Social Security for dentists we're
almost all going to max out at age 66 or
67 our full retirement age we are in
2014 dollars going to receive thirty one
thousand seven hundred or close to
thirty two thousand dollars 2015 that's
going to kick up probably a little over
thirty two thousand so we're going to
use that so Social Security for the
dentist
is 32,000 spouse spouse is going to
receive either his or her social
security calculated amount or one half
of the spouse so the spousal benefit is
going to be at least half
that's $48,000 sitting there going game
at Lee is one hundred and two thousand
dollars per year that you're going to
have to generate from your savings to
pull out in other words you'll be in
retirement for probably about 30 years
the actuaries use the number 95 for the
age 66 or 67 that's 30 years for 30
years or so you're gonna have to get a
hundred and two thousand dollars per
year from your savings
well you multiply that by 30 no there's
going to be some growth and we are
judging here a very conservative
portfolio of 35 percent stocks 65
percent bonds giving a three percent
real return long term over a long period
of time for say a 50/50 mix it's more
like four point five percent so I'm
going low here at a three percent return
over a period of time our multiplier is
22 so 22 times whatever you need per
year is what your
savings is going to need to be so that
comes out to just over a little over 2.2
million dollars
we'll call it 2.2 now you normally have
a practice to say off save to save a
practice to sell your practice is
probably going to be worth at least
$300,000 $300,000 or so so still we come
right back to that 2 million dollar
amount that you probably will need in
retirement two million dollars is our
final number here for most dentists
which will safely give them enough to
make it through retirement and there's a
lot of other caveats here that can come
into play grandchildren parents that
you're taking care of there's a lot of
other expenses that we're not including
here but this is just the average and it
shows you the math how to figure it out
that's the key thing what's involved in
figuring out how much you need now this
2 million dollars is in 2014 dollars it
has to be indexed up every year so if
you're gonna retire in 20 years a lot of
guys will say well yeah I know you don't
like to talk about inflation but what's
a target number I should really hit 4
well at 3% inflation per year at just
about doubles after 20 years so 2
million dollars today will be 4 million
in 20 years or about a million and a
half
in ten years